We will do a lot of work through the command
prompt terminal. Linux users are usually more familiar
with the terminal as graphical user interfaces are relatively
new to the operating system.
But most Windows and Mac users don't need to use the command
prompt on a regular basis and may not be very familiar
with it.
However, now that you're venturing into computer
programming, you will need to use the terminal a lot.
You will see the terminal icon on your cloud desktop right
here, just double
click on it and it will open in a new window.
There we go. Once it's open, you will see the prompt. The prompt is
this dollar sign. And it shows you the.. some information.
So it shows you the user and the directory location.
Where you are within your system.
You can change directory
with the CD command, but there's an easier way
I'd like to show you to open the terminal in the directory
location that you want. So, let's close it for now.
And let's say for the program that we want to write, we want
to create a new folder on the desktop and all the work
that we want to do,
we will do in that folder.
So right click on the desktop and click on the create
folder option.
It will ask you to enter a new name and I'm .. I'm going
to call it app. And there we go,
our folder is now created, so let's double click on it to go
in the app folder.
And now what I'll do is I'll right click anywhere inside
this Explorer window and click on the option which says open
Terminal here and there we go.
Now a Terminal is open with the location desktop slash app.
So this is the directory that this particular terminal
is open in.
And this, of course, is the user name
because we're going to use python to create our program.
Let's check which version of pattern is installed
on this cloud desktop.
So in the common prompt here, just type python3 --version
It's python3 1 space and Dash dash version
Press enter, and it will display that python 3.6.9 is
installed. Great.
Please note that whenever there are major updates
to a programming language, the code written for previous
version may or may not really work. In such a case,
The programmer needs to update their code to adhere to the
changes in the programming language.
But when do we know there are major changes?
The python version's first number before the DOT is the major
version. In this case -
Three. The second number is the minor version, and the
3rd one is the patch number. So, you should consider updating
your code
mostly when you see the major version number has changed.
In our case, let's say, if it's if it changes from 3 to 4,
then we know that any code that we wrote for um python major
version three should probably be updated. For now we are using
python3, which is the latest major version available
at the time of recording this course.
Keep in mind that an older version of python may also be
available on your machine. If I type the same command,
but without the three in python -
so python --version and press enter, you will see
that we have a python version 2.7 also available.
So multiple versions of python can simultaneously live
on your computer and you need to write python3 instead
of just python to ensure that you're using the version
three and not 2. Now if we had only one version
on this machine.
In that case, you will not have to write python3.
And you could simply write python.
Okay, so hopefully you've been able to follow along so far.
And you could see the python3  version
that we are planning to use. Great.
And hopefully you have the terminal open in the APP folder
that you just created.
And let's continue to the next task where we will start
the python interpreter and play around with a little bit
and get familiar with the language.